The Chinese government has
one of the most extensive
propaganda networks in the
world inside the country,
but it also aggressively
works to influence
how it’s perceived
outside its borders.
“Good morning, President Xi!”
China has invested billions
into bolstering its image abroad.
Its state-run news outlets
push out messages in English
around the clock —
“You’re watching CGTN.”
“Live in Beijing.”
“From Nairobi.”
“Washington, D.C.”
— and its diplomats
have flocked to Twitter
in the last year.
But what happens when this
massive P.R. apparatus
has to do major
damage control?
We analyzed
thousands of tweets
from Chinese state media
and official accounts
and found three
dominant messages
China wants to
project to the world.
Here’s what we learned.
A novel coronavirus hit
the Chinese city of Wuhan
in January.
Early whistleblowers
were silenced.
People were angry about
a government cover-up.
But in the majority
of tweets we analyzed,
state-owned publications pushed
a much more optimistic view,
promoting what they said
was an effective response.
They are sharing
videos like this.
The Chinese Communist Party
refers to this
as positive energy,
only focusing
on the bright side
of an issue.
China did take drastic measures
to try and stem the outbreak,
but that’s the only story
China wants the world to see.
And state media is
eager to run praise
from foreign experts to
back up China’s successes.
One tweet from
state media that
did reveal Chinese
citizens’ discontent —
— it was quickly deleted.
Once the virus spread
across the world,
China started
positioning itself
as being at the forefront
of fighting the pandemic.
It presented itself
as a partner,
a grateful recipient, and more
recently a selfless leader,
highlighting large donations
from Chinese companies
and the government.
China hasn’t
typically disparaged
other countries’
responses to the virus,
with one exception —
the United States.
“President Donald
Trump has been
accused of denying,
downplaying and
outright rejecting the concerns
over the Covid-19 outbreak.”
Another thing we noticed are
Chinese outlets disputing
the origin of the virus.
It all started
in late February
with a renowned
Chinese epidemiologist.
Around the same time, the
C.D.C. reported the first case
in the United States
with an unknown origin.
A screenshot of the
announcement incorrectly
translated in Chinese
began to trend online
and was untouched by
Chinese government censors.
And a high-ranking
government spokesperson
actively pushed disinformation
about where the virus came from.
A government giving an
optimistic spin to bad news
is not unique.
“We want to go big, go solid.
The country is very strong.
We’ve never been so strong.”
But the scale of the Chinese
propaganda machine is,
and it’s clear that
it’s being deployed
to try and tell the
world a new story
about the
coronavirus pandemic.